Use '''Insert HTML link''' to insert hyperlinks into the text in the [[HTML component]]. Apart from standard hyperlinks, you will also be able to link to other [[Glossary:Element|elements]] or various [[Glossary:Registry_member|registry members]] in SuperMemo.

The '''Insert HTML link''' submenu includes the following options:

* '''Web address''' (''Ctrl+K'') - insert a standard hyperlink to any address on the Internet. Before choosing '''[[Component menu#Insert HTML link|Insert HTML link]] : Web address''', select a text that is to form the hyperlink anchor text. SuperMemo will open a dialog and ask you to type in the Internet address (URL). If you click your hyperlink in the [[Glossary:Presentation_mode|presentation mode]] (e.g. after pressing ''Esc''), SuperMemo will load the linked file from the Internet (or execute another relevant action, e.g. open a new e-mail message to send if you use a "''mailto:''" hyperlink). Example:
*# select text in your HTML document,
*# press ''Ctrl+K'', 
*# type ''<nowiki>http://cnn.com</nowiki>'' and press ''Enter'',
*# press ''Esc'' (to return to the [[Glossary:Presentation_mode|presentation mode]]),
*# click on the hyperlink ([http://cnn.com CNN.com] page should show),
*# use the '''Back''' button or ''Alt+Left'' or ''Esc'' to return to the original text.
:Note that once SuperMemo loads an external page (e.g. [http://cnn.com CNN.com] page), HTML [[component menu]] is automatically replaced with the standard Internet Explorer menu
* '''Element''' - insert a hyperlink to another [[Glossary:Element|element]] in the [[Glossary:Collection|collection]]. When you execute this option, SuperMemo will open the [[Contents|'''Contents''' window]] and ask you to choose an [[Glossary:Element|element]] to link to. Once you have selected the [[Glossary:Element|element]] to link to, double click it or click the button '''Accept''' at the bottom of the [[Contents|'''Contents''' window]]. When you switch back to the [[Glossary:Presentation_mode|presentation mode]] (e.g. with ''Esc''), and click your new hyperlink, SuperMemo will display the linked [[Glossary:Element|element]] in the [[element window]]. To come back to the linking [[Glossary:Element|element]], click the '''Back''' button on the [[navigation bar]] (or press ''Alt+Left'')
* '''Element number''' - insert a hyperlink to another [[Glossary:Element|element]] by using that element's physical number. If your text already refers to another [[Glossary:Element|element]], e.g. ''#1481'', select the element number and choose '''Element number''' to immediately link to that element number
* '''Text registry''' - insert a hyperlink to another text in the text [[Glossary:Registry|registry]]. Before choosing '''[[Component menu#Insert HTML link|Insert HTML link]] : Text registry''', select a text that is supposed to be hyperlinked. When you execute this option, SuperMemo will open the text [[Glossary:Registry|registry]] and ask you to choose a text to link to. Once you have selected the text in the registry, double-click it or click the button '''Accept''' at the bottom of the text [[registry window]]. When you switch back to the [[Glossary:Presentation_mode|presentation mode]] (e.g. with ''Esc''), and click the new hyperlink, SuperMemo will display the hyperlinked text
* '''HTML file''' - insert a hyperlink to a stand-alone HTML file. Before choosing '''[[Component menu#Insert HTML link|Insert HTML link]] : HTML file''', select a text that is supposed to be hyperlinked. When you execute this option, SuperMemo will open a file dialog and ask you to choose an HTML file available on your hard disk or on a network drive. Once you have located the file, click '''Open'''. When you switch back to the [[Glossary:Presentation_mode|presentation mode]] (e.g. with ''Esc''), and click the new hyperlink, SuperMemo will load the linked file into the [[HTML component]]. To come back to the previously displayed text, choose '''Back''' on the HTML browser menu
* '''Registry image''' - insert an image from the image [[Glossary:Registry|registry]]. When you execute this option, SuperMemo will open the image [[Glossary:Registry|registry]] and ask you to choose an image to link to. Once you have selected the image, click the button '''Accept''' at the bottom of the image [[registry window]]. Your [[HTML component]] will now display the selected image inserted in your HTML code
* '''Registry script''' - insert a link to a SuperMemo [[Scripts|script]]. Select a text and choose this option to open the script [[Glossary:Registry|registry]]. Double-click the script to link to. Once you click on a link to a script, the script will be executed in the same was as it is executed via script [[Glossary:Component|components]]

Using '''[[Component menu#Insert HTML link|Insert HTML link]] : Web address''', you can also create hyperlinks based on various protocols such as ''ftp'', ''file'', ''mailto'', etc. You can also link to MS Office applications. For example ''Outlook:Calendar'' link will open the calendar in your MS Outlook