== Installation in seconds  ==

'''''Important!''''' You can install SuperMemo in seconds by simply running the downloaded file ''sm{{SMVER}}inst.exe''. 

Skip reading the rest of this text. It was written for those who are less experienced with computers!

Newer Windows may issue warnings like "this application can harm your computer" or "Unknown Publisher". If you are sure you downloaded from supermemo.org, or super-memo.com, or super-memory.com, or immediately after ordering, you can ignore that message.

== Uninstallation in seconds ==

You can uninstall SuperMemo (without removing your learning material) in seconds if you follow these steps:

# Run '''Control Panel'''
# In the '''Control Panel''' window, choose '''Uninstall program''' (in older Windows '''Uninstall or change a program''')
# In the '''Uninstall or change a program''' window, scroll down to ''SuperMemo'', and choose '''Uninstall'''

If you cannot find ''SuperMemo'' entry in Control Panel, use ''sm{{SMVER}}unin.exe'' located in the ''[SuperMemo]'' folder (e.g. ''C:\Program Files\SuperMemo\sm{{SMVER}}unin.exe'' (Computer administrator) or ''C:\SuperMemo\sm{{SMVER}}unin.exe'' (Limited account) by default)

== Installing SuperMemo for Beginners ==

If you already know the basics of using Windows such as copying files, creating directories, etc. you can skip blue insert boxes

Depending on the source of your SuperMemo, you will obtain it in one of the three basic forms:

* ''sm{{SMVER}}inst.exe'' - install wizard will download all necessary installation components and install, upgrade or update SuperMemo (depending on your current installation and configuration)
* ''sm{{SMVER}}zip.exe'' - self-extracting SuperMemo (once you run it, it will extract its files to the folder in which it is placed, e.g. ''C:\sm{{SMVER}}'')
* ''sm{{SMVER}}.zip'' - zipped stand-alone SuperMemo (''sm{{SMVER}}.exe'')

This text describes the following procedures:

# [[#Installing SuperMemo | Installing SuperMemo]]
# [[#Providing password | Providing the password]]
# [[#Installing collections | Installing collections downloaded from SuperMemo Library]] (including Palm and Windows CE)
# [[#Over SM8 | Installing SuperMemo {{SMVER}} over SuperMemo 8, SuperMemo 98/99 or SuperMemo 2000/2002/2004/2006/2008/15/16/17/18]]
# [[#Over SM8 | Installing SuperMemo {{SMVER}} over Advanced English]]
# [[#upd_sm | Updating SuperMemo {{SMVER}} to the latest release build]]
# [[#Where | Where is my SuperMemo?]]

See also: [[#FAQ | Frequently asked questions]]

== <span id="Installing SuperMemo">Installing SuperMemo</span> {{SMVER}} ==

<ol>
<li>Order and download SuperMemo {{SMVER}} from [https://supermemo.store SuperMemo Store]</li>

<div class="inset" style="background-color: #0FF"> This is how you can download SuperMemo {{SMVER}}:

# Go to the [https://supermemo.store SuperMemo Store] home page
# Click '''Add to cart''' corresponding to ''SuperMemo {{SMVER}} for Windows'' (this will add SuperMemo {{SMVER}} to your shopping cart)
# Click '''Check out'''
# Click the large '''PayPal''' button at the ''Express checkout'' section at the top of the page. This will open a PayPal pop-up box which you will use to log into your PayPal account. Once you are in, review the displayed information, and click the '''Continue to Review Order''' at the bottom of the pop-up window. This will redirect you to the Payment page back in [https://supermemo.store SuperMemo Store]
# Click '''Pay now'''
# Once your order has been processed and you file(s) prepared, click '''Download Now''' under SuperMemo {{SMVER}}
# In the '''Save As''' dialog box, in the Navigation pane along the left side of the dialog box, click the '''Desktop''' button, then click '''Save''' to download SuperMemo {{SMVER}} Install Wizard (i.e. ''sm{{SMVER}}inst.exe'') onto the desktop. Install Wizard is a program that does the entire installation for you

</div>

<li>Run the downloaded file ''sm{{SMVER}}inst.exe'' by double-clicking its icon on your desktop. It will open SuperMemo {{SMVER}} Install Wizard which will guide you through the setup. '''Important!''' Newer Windows might ask if you trust the ''"Unknown Publisher"''. If you download directly from SuperMemo site or immediately after ordering, you can ignore that message and continue the installation.</li>

<div class="inset" style="background-color: #00FFFF"> These are the steps you will go through:
# In the 1st step, you are greeted with the SuperMemo {{SMVER}} Install Wizard Welcome page. The page recommends that you close all other programs before continuing with the setup. This is to ensure no conflict during the installation occurs. You can close all other running programs in one of the following ways (choose the one you feel most comfortable with):
#* Click the taskbar button corresponding to the program you want to close (this will switch you to the program window) and then click the '''Close''' button in the upper-right corner of the window
#* Right-click the taskbar button corresponding to the program you want to close and then click the '''Close''' item from the context menu that appears
#* Press the ''Alt+Tab'' shortcut key to switch to the next open program and then ''Alt+F4'' to close it. Once you close all other running programs, click the '''Next''' button to go forward to the next step
# In the 2nd step, you can choose the folder you want to install SuperMemo {{SMVER}} and all its components to. By default, the install wizard suggests ''C:\Program Files\SuperMemo'' if you are running with a Computer administrator account or ''C:\SuperMemo'' if you are running with a Limited account. In case the '''Install to...''' folder does not exist on your computer, the install wizard will create it.<br /> If you want to choose a different '''Install to...''' folder, click the '''Browse...''' button to the right. In the '''Browse for Folder''' dialog box, select the new folder and click '''OK'''. If you want to create a new folder that does not exist yet, click the '''Make New Folder''' button in the bottom-left corner.<br /> Once you choose the '''Install to...''' folder, click the '''Next''' button to go forward to the next step
# In the 3rd step, you can choose the Start menu folder you want to create SuperMemo {{SMVER}} shortcuts in. By default, the install wizard suggests the folder named ''SuperMemo''. You can rename it however you like it. In case the Start menu folder does not exist on your computer, the install wizard will create it.<br /> If you want to create the Start menu folder as a subfolder of the folder that already exists, click the folder in the list.<br /> In case you do not want to create the Start menu folder (if you rarely or never use it), select the '''Do not create the Start menu folder''' checkbox at the bottom of the window.<br /> Once you choose the Start menu folder or select you do not want it, click the '''Next''' button to go forward to the next step
# In the 4th step, you can select the additional tasks you want SuperMemo {{SMVER}} Install Wizard to perform during the setup. These following tasks are available:
#* '''Icons'''
#** '''Add desktop icon''' - select this checkbox (it is checked by default) if you want SuperMemo {{SMVER}} Install Wizard to put the ''SuperMemo'' shortcut onto the desktop
#** '''Add Quick Launch bar icon''' - select this checkbox if you want the install wizard to add the ''SuperMemo'' shortcut to the Quick Launch bar located next to the '''Start''' button on the taskbar
Once you select the additional task(s) you want SuperMemo {{SMVER}} Install Wizard to perform, click the '''Next''' button to go forward to next step. In the next step, the install wizard downloads and installs SuperMemo {{SMVER}} on your computer. As this step rarely involves any interaction with you, this description skips it.
# In the last 5th step, SuperMemo {{SMVER}} Install Wizard reports to you that the setup has been completed successfully. At this stage, you can yet instruct it to do one of the following two actions:
#* '''Run SuperMemo {{SMVER}}''' - select this checkbox (it is checked by default) if you want to run SuperMemo {{SMVER}} after you press the '''Finish''' button at the very end of the installation process. Alternatively, you can run it by double-clicking its icon on the desktop, in the Quick Launch bar, etc. (whichever you have decided to add during the setup)
#* '''Open containing folder''' - select this checkbox if you want to open a Windows Explorer window displaying the folder which SuperMemo {{SMVER}} and all its components have been installed in after you press the '''Finish''' button at the very end of the installation process

</div>

<li>Send your [[registration]] to [[unlock SuperMemo]]</li>
<li>Read [[Introduction | ABC of SuperMemo]] to start your speed-learning adventure</li>
<li>Within one business day of registering, we will send you instructions on how to input the password (see: [[Unlock SuperMemo]]). Read below about [[#Providing password | providing the password]]</li>
<li>If you have any doubts about any of the steps of the installation procedure, please do not hesitate to [[E-mail|write]]. Even if you are a computer novice, you should not be shy of asking questions. By understanding your problems we can better support other users in the future</li>
</ol>

== Providing password ==

SuperMemo {{SMVER}} is protected with an unlock password. Without the password, it can only run for a limited period of time. After you submit your [[registration]], you will receive the unlock password within a business day. For more see: [[Unlock SuperMemo]].

'''Important!''' You should not be afraid of losing the password. Once you input it in SuperMemo, you are not likely to ever need it again. If you ever see the red bar again, it is enough to open any of your previously used [[Glossary:Collection|collection]]s to restore the program to full functionality. If you lose the password and all your [[Glossary:Collection|collection]]s, you can always get the password [https://supermemopedia.com/wiki/E-mail back from us].

You should input the password using '''[[File menu | File]] : [[File menu#Installation|Installation]] : Input password'''. Alternatively, you can just continue using SuperMemo and it will at some point ask you to input the password. If the option '''Input password''' is grayed, your SuperMemo has been already unlocked (no action necessary).

== <span id="Over_SM8">Installing SuperMemo {{SMVER}} over</span> earlier installations  ==

This is how you can install SuperMemo {{SMVER}} over SuperMemo 8, SuperMemo 98/99 or SuperMemo 2000/2002/2004/2006/2008/15/17/18 (either downloaded from the Internet or installed from SuperMemo CD-ROMs/DVDs such as [http://super-memory.com/english/ae.htm Advanced English], [http://super-memory.com/english/megamix.htm MegaMix], etc.): 

#Download SuperMemo {{SMVER}} from [https://supermemo.store SuperMemo Store] and save the downloaded file on your disk
#Run the file ''sm{{SMVER}}inst.exe'' (e.g. by double-clicking its icon in Windows Explorer). Once you run it, it will detect the existing SuperMemo installations and offer you the choice to upgrade ('''Upgrade''') or install SuperMemo {{SMVER}} in a new folder ('''Clean install'''). You should avoid using older versions of SuperMemo along with SuperMemo {{SMVER}} therefore it is recommended you choose '''Upgrade''' to avoid compatibility issues. 
#If your previous SuperMemo for Windows was not SuperMemo 16, you will need to upgrade your [[Glossary:Collection|collection]]s to the SuperMemo 16 format first. Only [[Glossary:Collection|collection]]s in the SuperMemo 16 format are upgradeable to SuperMemo {{SMVER}}. This is an automatic process. Only the windows layout may change slightly. You can adjust the layout and save it with ''Ctrl+Shift+F5''
#Once you open your [[Glossary:Collection|collection]]s in the SuperMemo 16 format in SuperMemo {{SMVER}}, they will be upgraded automatically.
#Within one business day of ordering SuperMemo, we will contact you with instructions on how to obtain and input the unlock password needed to continue your work with SuperMemo. Read above about [[#Providing_password|providing the password]]

== Installing SuperMemo {{SMVER}} on a computer without the Internet ==

You can install SuperMemo {{SMVER}} on a computer that is not connected to the net ('''Standalone PC'''). However, you will, naturally, need a net-connected PC to download SuperMemo in the first place ('''Connected PC'''). You will need a flashdrive, DVD-R, removable hard disk, or any other device ('''Storage device''') to move SuperMemo between the computers.

Follow these steps:

# Download and install SuperMemo {{SMVER}} on a '''Connected PC'''
# Copy the entire SuperMemo folder onto a '''Storage device''' (e.g. copy ''c:\SuperMemo\'' and all its subfolders onto a flashdrive)
# Move the '''Storage device''' from '''Connected PC''' to '''Standalone PC'''
# Copy SuperMemo folder from the '''Storage device''' to '''Standalone PC'''
# Run SuperMemo (e.g. double-click the file ''sm{{SMVER}}.exe'' located in the SuperMemo folder)
# Register SuperMemo (see: [[Unlock SuperMemo]]). You can send your registration file from any location

Note that:
* you only need 12.5 MB free on the '''Storage device''' to move SuperMemo
* it is recommended that you run SuperMemo '''As Administrator''' at least once for it to access the Windows registry and complete the installation
* if you are not sure how to create a shortcut to SuperMemo from you Windows desktop or Start menu, use '''[[File menu | File]] : [[File menu#Installation | Installation]] : Install icons''' (you need to '''Run as Administrator''') for this to work

== <span id="upd_sm">Updating SuperMemo {{SMVER}}</span> to the latest release build ==

Run the file ''sm{{SMVER}}inst.exe''. It is stored in the ''[SETUP]'' subfolder located in the SuperMemo folder (by default, ''C:\Program Files\SuperMemo\setup\sm{{SMVER}}inst.exe'' if you are running with a Computer administrator account or ''C:\SuperMemo\setup\sm{{SMVER}}inst.exe'' if you are running with a Limited account). Once you run it, it will detect your current SuperMemo {{SMVER}} installation and suggest that you update it. If you choose to do so, it will then compare SuperMemo {{SMVER}} on your computer with the latest available on our server. In case a newer version is available, it will download it and replace the currently installed version with it.

Even if there is no newer version available, the install wizard will allow you to modify your current configuration (e.g. remove or add shortcuts, etc.)

== <span id="Where">Where is my SuperMemo?</span>  ==
<div style="background-color: #00ffff" class="inset">
If you are not sure where SuperMemo on your computer is, you can always locate it using Windows: 

#Press the '''Windows logo''' button
# type in the name of the file using the following selection:
#*''sm{{SMVER}}.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo {{SMVER}} (remember not to put spaces before or after the dot) 
#*''sm18.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 18
#*''sm17.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 17
#*''sm16.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 16 
#*''sm15.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 15
#*''sm2008.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 2008
#*''sm2006.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 2006 
#*''sm2004.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 2004 
#*''sm2002.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 2002 
#*''sm2000.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 2000 
#*''sm99.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 99 
#*''sm98.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 98 
#*''sm8.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 8 
#*''sm{{SMVER}}inst.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo {{SMVER}} Install Wizard 
#*''sm18inst.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 18 Install Wizard 
#*''sm17inst.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 17 Install Wizard 
#*''sm16inst.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 16 Install Wizard 
#*''sm15inst.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 15 Install Wizard 
#*''sm08inst.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 2008 Install Wizard 
#*''sm06inst.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 2006 Install Wizard 
#*''sm04inst.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo 2004 Install Wizard 
#*''sm17abc.zip'' - if you want to locate SuperMemo 16 installation file (installation file is a zip archive containing SuperMemo and its files that can be installed manually without the use of the Install Wizard; you receive this file only if you have problems with the Install Wizard or if you cannot access to the Internet) 
#*''sm16abc.zip'' - if you want to locate SuperMemo 16 installation file
#*''sm15abc.zip'' - if you want to locate SuperMemo 15 installation file
#*''sm2008abc.zip'' - if you want to locate SuperMemo 2008 installation file 
#*''sm2006abc.zip'' - if you want to locate SuperMemo 2006 installation file 
#*''sm2004abc.zip'' - if you want to locate SuperMemo 2004 installation file 
#*''sm2002zip.exe'' - if you want to locate SuperMemo 2002 self-extracting installation file (self-extracting installation file is an archive that contains SuperMemo and its files that can be installed manually; you receive this file only upon request)
#*''sm2000zip.exe'' - if you want to locate SuperMemo 2000 self-extracting installation file 
#*''sm99zip.exe'' - if you want to locate SuperMemo 99 self-extracting installation file 
#*''smhelp.chm'' - if you are looking for [http://supermemo.com/english/helpdown.htm SuperMemo Help] 
#*''sm*.exe'' - if you are looking for SuperMemo downloaded from the Internet and you do not remember exactly what files you have downloaded (see the file date stamping to figure out which has just been downloaded)
#All locations of the searched file will be displayed in the column '''In Folder''' 
#You can double-click files located in the column '''Name''' to run them. You can also hold down the ''Alt'' key and drag them to the desktop to create new icons. For example, if you hold down the ''Alt'' key and drag the file named ''sm{{SMVER}}'', you will create a new SuperMemo {{SMVER}} shortcut on the desktop 
#If you have problems locating SuperMemo, remember that you might have renamed its original file (e.g. when replacing an earlier version)
</div>

== FAQ ==

=== You need to close SuperMemo before continuing with the setup ===

''Monika, Poland, 2006 asked:''

'''Question'''

I have just tried to install SuperMemo but I received the following message:

 ''You cannot install SuperMemo while it is running.''
 
 ''Close SuperMemo first.''

After I press '''OK''', SuperMemo Install Wizard closes.

'''Answer'''

Yes, this is the correct behavior. When SuperMemo Install Wizard starts up it checks if SuperMemo is running in the background, and if it does it prompts you to close it before continuing with the setup. This is to prevent any conflicts during the installation process (e.g. when renaming older SuperMemos at '''Upgrade''' or overwriting older SuperMemo release builds at '''Update''').

----

=== During Update you can check for the latest version of SuperMemo and change your current SuperMemo installation ===

''Terje, , 2004 asked:''

'''Question'''

I have just tried to update my current SuperMemo installation to the latest release build but I received the following message:

 ''You have the latest version of SuperMemo.''

When I clicked '''OK''', SuperMemo Install Wizard apparently completed the installation as it reported it as successful. However, when I run SuperMemo and check its version ('''[[Help menu |Help]] : About'''), the version ramains the same as the one prior to the installation

'''Answer'''

When you choose the '''Update''' installation path, SuperMemo Install Wizard not only checks for the latest version of SuperMemo but it also lets you change the configuration of your current SuperMemo installation (e.g. if you have not created the ''SuperMemo'' Start menu folder during your previous installations, it gives you an opportunity to do it during the '''Update''' procedure). When you receive the message as the one in the question, it means the you have the latest version of the software installed on your computer and no newer version is currently made available. Once you click '''OK''' to the message, SuperMemo Install Wizard attempts to update your current installation with new settings (if you have modified them). If you have not chosen any new settings, SuperMemo Install Wizard will not do anything (as it can be inspected by clicking '''Show details''' during the Installing stage) and still reports the procedure as successful (to reassure users no damage to their current installations has been done).

----

=== You can use F1 to access on-line help ===

''Garry Gross, , 2001 asked:''

'''Question'''

Why I should not be able to just hit ''F1'' to get help after installing SuperMemo?

'''Answer'''

''F1'' will work. However, this way you will access the on-line help. This is a recommended way of using the documentation due to daily updates and corrections. 

----

=== It is not enough if you just copy the font, you need to install it ===

''Eugene Holst, USA, 1999 asked:''

'''<span id="Font">Question</span>'''

I am using the Classical Greek but I'm not getting the Greek characters, but some strange symbols instead. I copied the font called ''graeca.fon ''from the ''sm2004\systems\...'' folders to my ''d:\Windows\Fonts'' folder. Is there something else I have to do to have the font available in Windows 95?

'''Answer'''

Yes. Instead of just copying fonts you should install them. Use '''Control Panel : Fonts : Install New Font'''. In the Folders panel, choose the location where your ''graeca.fon'' font can be found (here: ''sm2004\systems\graeca\font\graeca.fon''). In rare instances, if '''Install New Font''' is not visible, you may have to reinstall Windows or try to set the System attribute on the ''FONT'' folder in Windows (this problem appears in some OEM installations of Windows and is not related to SuperMemo)

----

=== SuperMemo Uninstall Wizard does not remove all folders/files ===

''SuperMemo Install Wizard Beta, Poland, 2004 asked:''

'''Question'''

I have decided to uninstall SuperMemo but after the procedure reported complete, I have received the message informing me not all folders/files have been removed.

'''Answer'''

By default, the uninstaller plays it safe and doesn't remove folders/files that SuperMemo Install Wizard didn't create in the first place. Additionally, SuperMemo Uninstall Wizard will not delete any knowledge collections. They will have to be deleted manually at a later time (e.g. in Windows Explorer).

----

=== SuperMemo help file may appear empty if active content is blocked ===

''Miko, Poland, 2006 asked:''

'''Question'''

When I double-click on ''smhelp.chm'' file, it appears it is empty inside

'''Answer'''

You need to unblock active content. E.g. in Windows Explorer click '''Properties''' and then click '''Unblock'''