{{Fig|The first [[Glossary:Forgetting curve|forgetting curve]] for newly learned knowledge collected with [[SuperMemo]]. Power approximation is used in this case due to the heterogeneity of the learning material freshly introduced in the learning process. Lack of separation by [https://supermemo.guru/wiki/Memory_complexity memory complexity] results in superposition of exponential forgetting with different decay constants. On a semi-log graph, the power regression curve is logarithmic (in blue), and appearing almost straight. The curve shows that in the presented case recall drops merely to 58% in four years, which can be explained by a high reuse of memorized knowledge in real life. The first [[Glossary:Optimum interval|optimum interval]] for review at [[Glossary:Retrievability|retrievability]] of 90% is 3.81 days. The [[Glossary:Forgetting curve|forgetting curve]] can be described with the formula <code>R{{=}}0.9876*power(interval,-0.069)</code>, where <code>0.9876</code> is the recall after one day, while <code>-0.069</code> is the decay constant. In this is case, the formula yields 90% recall after 3.81 days. 88,596 repetition cases were used to plot the presented graph. Steeper drop in recall will occur if the material contains a higher proportion of difficult knowledge (esp. [https://supermemo.guru/wiki/20_rules poorly formulated knowledge]), or in new students with lesser mnemonic skills. Curve irregularity at intervals 18-20 comes from a smaller sample of repetitions (later interval categories on a log scale encompass a wider range of intervals). Increase in recall after many years usually results from learning the same knowledge outside SuperMemo (in real life). The blue vertical line indicates the optimum interval. The purple horizontal line indicates the retention goal of 90%. The irregular pale lime line shows a simulation of an actually used interval distribution that in [[Algorithm SM-19]] weights in accuracy of the optimum interval with recency of the optimum interval from the [[Algorithm SM-15]]. Due to the recency bias, longer intervals indicate progress in learning, yield better R-metric, save time, and provide better memory consolidation}}