{{Fig|Only very long intervals magnify significant differences between various [[spaced repetition]] algorithms, incl. those that score very high on the [[universal metric]] benchmarks (e.g. SM-19 and SM-20). In the presented example, a very easy item from [[Advanced English]] achieved a very long interval of over 26 years in just 5 [[repetition]]s. The colored heatmap shows a weighted optimum with the darkest red color showing the best consensus of 32 years and 3 months. At the extreme ends of disagreement, [[Algorithm SM-2]] points to an optimum of 66 years because it is unable to sufficiently reduce its [[E-Factor]] in just 5 repetitions (for successive grades 4 it would still imply 2.5-fold increase in interval). Unoptimized [[FSRS]] attempts to reconstruct the memory status using the [[three component model of memory]] and the [[history of repetitions]]. Each repetition adds to the potential error; however, its conservative 9-year interval proposition is a pretty safe bet that most users will still find as excessively long. In this particular case, optimized [[Algorithm SM-20]] provided the closest bet to the weighted optimum of 32 years, but the actual "winner" will differ from repetition to repetition. Both [[FSRS]] and [[Algorithm SM-19]] propose shortening the next interval; however, [[SuperMemo 20]] disallows this (due to anti-cramming measures). The heatmap is a form of asymmetric bell-shaped distribution, and algorithmic weighing will receive microscopic nudges along the learning process depending on the [[R-metric]] scores. The black area on the left represents the previously used interval of 26 years. '''Important!''' Users can always override the recommendations of SuperMemo and set a shorter interval, e.g., with <code>Ctrl+Shift+R</code>}}