{{Fig|The predictions of the [https://supermemo.guru/wiki/Two-process_model_of_sleep_regulation two-component sleep model] about the homeostatic and circadian status of your alertness. The horizontal axis represents time. <span style{{=}}"padding: 3px; background-color: blue; color: white;">Blue blocks</span> show the actual sleep episodes. <span style{{=}}"padding: 3px; background-color: aqua;">Aqua line</span> shows the 24h circadian sleep drive with a mid-day siesta hump. <span style{{=}}"padding: 3px; background-color: green;color: white;">Green line</span> is an inverse of the homeostatic sleep drive and can be interpreted as homeostatic alertness, which declines exponentially during wakefulness and is quickly restored by slow-wave sleep (for simplicity, as in Borbely model, the entire sleep block is assumed to have a contribution proportional to its length, as the SleepChart model does not account for sleep stages). <span style{{=}}"padding: 3px; background-color: yellow;">Yellow vertical lines</span> show the prediction of the circadian bathyphase (circadian middle-of-the-night peak). Bathyphase computations are done with the help of a phase response curve model (as opposed to a statistical model used in earlier versions of SleepChart). <span style{{=}}"padding: 3px; background-color: red; color: white;">Red line</span> shows the resultant alertness (peaks are best for learning, valleys are best for sleep). For example, Alertness on Oct 1, 2008 at 7:43 was predicted to be at 59% of the maximum but would keep increasing fast in the first 2 hours of wakefulness (a typical symptom of a night sleep that is terminated too early). The picture shows two peaks in alertness on Oct 1, 2008, at 9 am and at 7 pm. Those periods would likely be best suited for learning on that day.}}