<blockquote>
'''''Figure:''' An image [[Glossary:Registry|registry]] is a set of image files sorted by their names. The picture presents a typical image registry. There are 21,645 pictures in the [[Glossary:Registry|registry]] (as displayed in the caption). Image names are displayed on the left.  Most of pictures are stored in the [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JPEG JP(E)G] format. Other formats show in different colors: [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GIF GIFs] in <span style="padding: 3px; background: rgb(255, 200, 144);">orange</span>, [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portable_Network_Graphics PNGs] in <span style="padding: 3px; background: yellow;">yellow</span> and [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BMP_file_format BMPs] in <span style="padding: 3px; background: lime;">lime</span>. Pictures with checkmarks can be extracted into a picture [[Glossary:Registry_subset|subset]] (e.g. to illustrate a chosen [[Glossary:Element|element]]). The currently displayed picture is one of citric acid cycle (Krebs cycle, TCA cycle). Individual [[Glossary:Element|elements]] in SuperMemo can focus on small portions of this large picture. The list of elements using a given picture can be displayed in the bottom-right panel by clicking '''List''' at the very bottom of the [[registry window]]. The status bar displays selected information about the current image. It is the 3637th image in the alphabetical order. It is reused by 55 [[Glossary:Element|elements]]. It is located on physical position 2270 in the [[Glossary:Registry|registry]]. It occupies the file slot 196353 in the [[SuperMemo files#elements|[ELEMENTS] subfolder]]. Its path and filename in the [ELEMENTS] subfolder is displayed next. The file is 121,712 bytes large. It was imported or created on Oct 21, 2006 at 17:54:34.''
</blockquote>