'''Advancing elements''' is moving their repetition to an earlier date. It is the opposite of '''[[Postpone]]'''.

'''Advance''' is helpful if you want to review topics in a specific short period (e.g. a week). It is also useful to make a thorough review of a subset of items, e.g. in case knowledge changes or portions of knowledge get damaged by [http://supermemo.guru/wiki/Forgetting forgetting].

In case of [[Glossary:Topic|topics]], [[Glossary:Element|elements]] will be rescheduled with new [[Glossary:Interval|intervals]] falling into a selected range. For example, if you want to thoroughly review all [[Glossary:Topic|topics]] related to ''whiplash injury'' over the period of two weeks, search for ''whiplash'' (''Ctrl+F''), choose '''Advance''', and select 14 (number of days in the review period). 

For [[Glossary:Item|items]], '''Advance''' works differently. All items will be rescheduled within the period of the advance [[Glossary:Interval|interval]] starting with tomorrow. Unlike in the case of [[Glossary:Topic|topics]], item [[Glossary:Interval|intervals]] may still be very long. Just short enough to fall within the review period. For those [[Glossary:Item|items]] that are lucky to retain long [[Glossary:Interval|intervals]], if your recall is good, you will not need to waste time on reviewing them frequently after the review period. The formula for the next repetition date is the same for [[Glossary:Topic|topics]] and [[Glossary:Item|items]]: <code>today+[1..Advance Interval]</code>. The formula for the new [[Glossary:Interval|interval]] is: <code>[1..AdvanceInterval]</code> for [[Glossary:Topic|topics]] and <code>(Today + [1..AdvanceInterval] - LastRepetition)</code> for [[Glossary:Item|items]].

'''Advance topics''': If you specify the maximum [[Glossary:Interval|interval]] as 100, all [[Glossary:Topic|topics]] with longer interval will receive intervals randomly dispersed within the 1..100 range. [[Glossary:Topic|Topics]] with [[Glossary:Interval|intervals]] shorter than 100 will remain untouched. '''Advance topics''' executes [[Glossary:Mid-interval_repetition|mid-interval repetition]] on the affected [[Glossary:Topic|topics]] (unlike '''Advance items''').

'''Advance items''': If you specify the maximum [[Glossary:Interval|interval]] as 1000, all [[Glossary:Item|items]] with interval longer than 1000 will receive intervals randomly shortened so that to schedule a repetition between today or the day when the interval reaches 1000 days. All [[Glossary:Item|items]] repeated before 1000 days ago, will be scheduled for repetition today. Unlike '''Advance topics''', '''Advance items''' shortens [[Glossary:Interval|intervals]] without executing a [[Glossary:Mid-interval_repetition|mid-interval repetition]] (which would be illegal from the learning process standpoint as no repetition can be considered executed without you actually reviewing it).

You can execute advance using [[Subset_operations#Advance|subset operations]] in the [[browser]] or in the [[contents]] window. You can also use the [[Browser toolbar]].